Okay. In this section of the course, we
are gonna take a look at Docker Hub.
Docker Hub is a public Docker
registry. What that is, it's a lot
like Maven Central. Maven Central is a
Maven repository, public repository of
artifacts. So, the Docker registry or
Docker Hub is a Docker registry, that's
publicly available, and what this has, is
lots of Docker images, that we can pull
down to our local system. By default,
when we ask for something, Docker is
gonna go out and look at Docker hub for
that image. Now we can specify a
different image through the naming
convention by specifying a URL, in front
of the image name that we want. This
is something that you can do if you
developed your own images and are
hosting them internally, such as an
artifactory. Artifactory does come
support with its own Docker registries,
where, if you're working for a company
you could do so. But for the purposes of
this course, Docker Hub, which is a
public repository a registry of Docker
images is gonna be perfect for our
needs, because if you can think of an
open-source project out there, it's
probably up there already, so you can
bring down a pre-configured image from
Docker hub and get cooking right away
with that image on your local system. So
a lot of cool stuff up there and
available for you to use. In this section,
I'm gonna jump over to the computer
now and we'll take a look at a couple of
projects. I'm gonna point a couple
things out to you, just get your feet wet
with Docker Hub and some of the
available images that are up there for
our use. Docker Hub, which is a
publicly available docker registry. Okay.
I've got Chrome up and have already
navigate over to hub.docker.com so this
is Docker hub. What I've done is, I've
searched on the mysql image and you can
actually, I think it shows you here on the
right hand side
docker pull mysql. So that would pull
down the latest image of the Dockerfile.
Now, what we can see here is that we've
got, this is pretty typical of a Dockerfile or open the Docker registry on
Docker Hub. So we can see docker run --name
and there's a number of things that are
gonna change here, so we can use connect commands docker exec. So every Docker
image is gonna have its own
construction file. What's important
here is there's some environment
variables that will customize this image
for our use. So if we want to set up a
special MySQL_ROOT_PASSWORD, we just need
to pass in that password, and that will
be set up in this for the time that we
run this image. It's gonna set up
users and passwords that are
optional. So a number of things here, that
we can do by MySQL. Now let me contrast
us with Postgres, another very popular
database, and actually we're gonna get a
little blurb there on Postgres. But now
we have a whole new set of environment
variables, that we can work with. This
is unique to the Postgres Docker image
and the specific Postgres Docker image
that we are working with. Now just as a
reminder, I'm gonna come up here, and we
can see that we have tags here. So these
are different Postgres images that are
available in Dockerfiles
that we can pull down from Docker Hub if
we wanted a specific Postgres image. If
not, if we leave the tag empty, then
latest is gonna come down. So
this is a way that we can do regression
testing to an older version of Postgres
or MySQL or insert whatever open-source
project you are working with here. So, we
do have a lot of different options there.
But I want you to get aware of
these are like fully configured Linux
environments for their respective
database, so there's Postgres, there's MySQL,
there's MongoDB. If you can think of a
Linux based database a lot of open
source ones out there, a lot of open
source projects, Redis, elastic search, so
all the stuff is gonna be out there
in Docker Hub for us to pull down. But
the key point here is, they are all gonna
be unique. What you're gonna find
when you go out to Docker Hub is that
the documentation is generally pretty
good. It's gonna give you a good
jump on, getting this set up for use. Okay
so that's a quick introduction to Docker
Hub. So like I said, you can find all
kinds of stuff up there. There's
a lot of images. Everyday there's been
new images being added. So if there's a
major open-source project, it probably is
a Docker image up on Docker Hub for your use.
Now, just this past summer, is a
beginning 2017, so 2016 I went up there. I
found images for elastic search. I found
it for RabbitMQ, Kibana.
I was able to get a pretty robust
stack, just from default Docker images up
on Docker Hub. So this is probably one of
the coolest features to me about Docker
where I can go out and like if I want
Postgres, in the old day I'd have to like
set up a VM and install Postgres.
It's a big pain in the neck. Now, I can
just grab that container, start it up, add
a couple of parameters, and boom. I'm off to
the races. So this is a real cool feature
about Docker, where you can grab these
pre-configured containers, bring them
down to your system. Now the important
part is you got to read the Docker
documentation up on Docker Hub about
that image how the author set up that
image. But there's a lot of flexibility.
I've been working with Docker for
over a year now, and I keep seeing stuff
get better and better. It's a rapidly
evolving area. But these images aren't
they're really pretty cool very
versatile. So when you need something, if
you need to spool up like ActiveMQ if
you're testing messaging. There's an
image up there for it so pull it down,
set it up, and you don't have to install
anything. You're cooking already. So
Docker Hub is probably one of my
favorite features about Docker. Just for
convenience of rapidly developing and
testing to different
open-source projects. So a very cool
feature of Docker.